Review 
In this manuscript, the authors present a novel approach to modeling animal movement in constrained spaces – in particular they consider modeling the movement of marine mammals near shorelines.  The methods described are clear, the modeling approach novel, and overall I enjoyed reading this paper.  I have some suggestions.

1.	I’m honestly shocked to see a paper submitted to AoAS on animal movement without a single plot of the animal tracking data in the main manuscript.  I think it is critical that you show readers the data you are modeling.  You show multiple sets of simulated data tracks in the main manuscript, but never the actual movement data.  On a more general note, while I think the modeling approach to  modeling constrained movement is very interesting, it isn’t clear to me what scientific impact this modeling approach has.  Not even showing the data clearly is indicative of a more general lack of serious applied scientific analysis in this manuscript, in my opinion.  I think AoAS readers will really appreciate understanding the scientific advances that can be made now that you have made this modeling advancement.  Your data analysis focuses on the effect of a disturbance on movement.  This seems to be a relatively minor scientific result, and one that possibly could have been obtained without modeling the shoreline at all.  Can you somehow convince readers that this data and this question are interesting?  It has been analyzed before.  Are your results novel and different from those obtained with simpler analyses?  Could your results not have been achieved without your new modeling approach?  Why is it important to know that marine mammals respond to loud sounds?  What implications does it have for them?  Why is it critical to model in such a way that the constrained waterways are seen as hard barriers?  There are multiple possible approaches here, but I really think readers will appreciate additional scientific motivation and results for this work.

2.	I think your novel modeling approach for modeling constrained movement is very interesting.  However, I think readers will very much appreciate a better understanding of where this approach might break down, and a more serious comparison with existing approaches.  For example, coarsening the time step of your observations seems like it would result in simulations that do not respect the firm boundaries, but this is never discussed.  Is there any issue to modeling coarse resolution data near shorelines?  Can you show that your movement data are close enough together in time that this is not a problem for this data set?  Or can you compare with an existing approach for modeling constrained movement (you cite some in your paper) and clearly illustrate how your approach improves on existing approaches?  You make some statements about how your approach has some nice properties relative to other approaches, but without a direct comparison it isn’t clear how your new approach improves on old approaches.

3.	Your simulation study shows that you can simulate data constrained to be within very interesting boundaries, and also shows that if your data are high resolution, you can recover parameters when you fit simulated data.  However, it isn’t clear how well your model actually fits the data you are using.  Can you show that data simulated from your model is very similar to observed movement?  Can you show that you can recover parameters well if you simulate movement data from the parameters you estimated from your tracking data?  Doing this will help readers better understand what your model captures well in the data and what it does not.

Minor suggestions:

Page 2, 3 lines from bottom.  You say that reflected SDEs do not have a known transition density, but I don’t think that is true, or perhaps you need to clarify.  For example, your model doesn’t have an analytically tractable transition density, but once you discretize in time and assume that some things (like relative position to shore) are constant over that time interval, you can then derive a transition density.  I think this is very similar to what happens in reflected SDEs.  Perhaps clarify here.

Section 2.1.  As stated above, I think readers will really appreciate more scientific analysis here – in particular a better understanding of why this dataset should be analyzed again with your methods.  If possible, clearly state what sorts of results have been obtained before (you allude to these), and clearly show if possible how your results improve on these, or make management actions clear that were not clear before, or something similar.

Page 4, paragraph 2, sentence starting “Measurements” is not clear to me – please clarify.

Page 4, sentence starting “About 9% of the GPS measurements…” – can you give more details here?  It might make more sense to not mentione using OpenStreetMap, and instead just focus on the Google Earth data?

Page 4, last line.  You assume that narwhals are “influenced by the shore within a 3km range.  This seems like a very important assumption – can you justify it?  Or do some sort of sensitivity analysis to this assumption?

Page 7, paragraph starting with “Equation (5) shows that…”  At this point in the manuscript, it isn’t clear that you are going to let “omega” vary over time, and my thought at this point was that this model would require the animal to have a constant mean turning angle of clockwise or counterclockwise.  I suggest you tell readers that you will later model “omega” as varying over time and as a function of distance to the shore.   

Page 9, first paragraph.  Is this persistent movement along the shoreline something that animals will only do when they are close to shore?  In your model, could animals follow the shoreline when they are very far from it?  For example moving north/south a long ways from a north/south shoreline?  If your model only has this as a possibility when animals are close to shore, I suggest mentioning that here.

Page 10, last line.  You say “to prevent the animal from hitting the boundary, rho should remain smaller than D^shore.”  This seems to me like an incredibly important result, and is not given any justification.  Can you provide some details, especially in the context of your numerical approximation you present later (a time discretization)?

Page 11, line before Equation (10).  I suggest changing “solve” to “are the solutions to”

Page 12, paragraph after Equation (12).  I believe these are also called “product B-splines” 
